In this lecture, we're going to learn about the post section of Jenkins file.
The Jenkins File Post section is used to run additional steps at the end of pipeline or stage.
It is not a required field.
Most of the jobs you will write, you won't have this section.
So why do you need this post section?
Let's say you run a job and one of the stage fails, and in case the job fails, you want to notify
somebody or you want to do some additional stuff.
You can do that using this post section and it supports different condition.
You can run this when the job fails or you can run this all the ways.
So we're going to go over it.
How does this look like?
A couple examples are, let's say in this case, the post section will run always whether the job passes
or fails.
And in this case it's just going to display.
I will always say hello again.
In this case, the post will run only when the job fails, and in this case it's just showing.
Job failed.
But you can also send email notification.
Remember, the failure section is identical to the steps section as in you can run any command.
So if you want to trigger a lambda and you want that lambda to go do something, it can do all that.
This one is a little different.
So in this case the agent is non.
That's the first thing.
So each stage needs to specify its own agent.
But moreover, the post is at the stage level.
So for the second stage test on Linux, we want to always run this J unit command which runs some target
test cases and these are the Jenkins file post conditions.
So always we saw the example failure, we saw the example, but beyond that, there are multiple other
conditions.
You can also have multiple conditions within the same post section.
For example, your post section may look like this where you have different conditions such as changed,
success, unstable, aborted, and depending on the outcome of the Jenkins job, one of this section
might run.
And just to keep in mind, the change means it will run only if the current pipeline has a different
status from the previously completed pipeline success.
You got it run.
If the pipeline is success typically denoted in the web y with a blue or green indication, unstable
means the current pipeline has an unstable status, usually caused by test failings, code violations,
etc. typically denoted in the web UI with a yellow indication and finally aborted, which is due to
the pipeline being manually aborted, typically denoted in the web UI with a gray indication.
All right, enough theory.
Let's jump into the Jenkins console and check out this post section in action.